added files for new course (#4758)
Qiskit/documentation: learning/courses/designing-and-leading-quantum-projects/early-stages.mdx

---
title: Early stages
description: Perspectives on how to start your quantum initiative. This includes developing a vision, mission statement, and focus areas.
---

{/* cspell:ignore upskilled */}

> ## Building your quantum program

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Build your quantum program
```

The development of an organization's quantum initiatives will be influenced by a variety of factors, including research goals, and human and fiscal resources. Early-stage development often consists of steps that include: 1) establish a vision, mission and focus area, 2) you onboard your own team, 3) enable that team (to build in that focus area), and then 4) evaluate the focus area and your team's progress and iterate the process of narrowing or shifting focus and the corresponding team enablement. Let's explore what some of these steps mean.

1. **Define mission statement:** Define the overarching and high-level vision for program and team activities; create a path towards achieving the shared vision through a clear and prescriptive mission and objectives.

> 2. **Define goals & their measures of success:** Identify goals which contribute to the mission. Define a process and metrics to assess and determine success of the identified goals. The field of quantum computing changes rapidly. So having big-picture priorities and criteria for success clearly defined can be instrumental when technology or interest changes. Identify what programs, events and resources (either from IBM Quantum or of your own) will be crucial in advancing your goals.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. **Define goals and their measures of success:** Identify goals that contribute to the mission. Define a process and metrics to assess and determine success of the identified goals. The field of quantum computing changes rapidly. So having big-picture priorities and criteria for success clearly defined can be instrumental when technology or interest changes. Identify what programs, events and resources (either from IBM Quantum&reg; or of your own) will be crucial in advancing your goals.
```

3. **Define research and application focus areas:** Quantum computing has applications in so many areas. That's part of its appeal. But it also means we have to make tough choices in picking one or two focus areas to have a deep impact. Align team capabilities, resources, drivers and mission to a focus area that targets near-term quantum advantage. Define a process for evaluation and iterative development on project focus areas based on discoveries.
4. **Build an interdisciplinary team:** Build a team on which many different backgrounds and fields of expertise are represented. Partners commonly identify backgrounds in physics, programming, business, project management and marketing as being critical. Define how the team will work together in pursuit of team goals through assignment of roles and responsibilities.

> 5. **Onboard & Enable Team:** Guide and coach individuals based on their unique background and quantum computing goals. Direct team members to the [IBM Quantum Learning platform](https://learning.quantum.ibm.com/) for courses, tutorials, and documentation, and also be sure to take advantage of any IBM Quantum live events to which you have access. These resources will help your team fast-track and simplify their quantum computing learning journey.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. **Onboard and enable the team:** Guide and coach individuals based on their unique background and quantum computing goals. Direct team members to the [IBM Quantum Learning platform](/learning) for courses, tutorials, and documentation, and also be sure to take advantage of any IBM Quantum live events to which you have access. These resources will help your team fast-track and simplify their quantum computing learning journey.
```

The following sections will add detail to the guidelines 1-3 above. Items 4-5 will be addressed in the next lesson.

## Establish a Vision & Mission

The field of quantum computing is developing rapidly. This makes it important to have guiding priorities and clear criteria for success.

We recommend you start by defining your organization's quantum computing vision and mission to guide and direct your organization to success. 
    A __vision__ defines an aspirational long-term goal and future state. 
    A __mission__ charts the path towards achieving a vision by defining the current near-term purpose, objectives and required actions. 

The vision and mission collectively serve as your team's lighthouse, guiding your team to achieve near-term and long-term success based on your organization's values, priorities and strategy.

## Identifying goals

Once you have determined your organization's quantum vision & mission, define goals which ladder up to your organization's vision and mission. 

>     Goals exist across many dimensions. There are 4 dimensions in particular which have proved useful to many partners in helping them define the high-level priorities of their teams. We recommend prioritizing at most two dimensions to facilitate success.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Identify goals

Once you have determined your organization's quantum vision and mission, define goals that ladder up to your organization's vision and mission. 
    Goals exist across many dimensions. Four dimensions in particular have proved useful to many partners in helping them define the high-level priorities of their teams. We recommend prioritizing at most two dimensions to facilitate success.
```

* Implement iterative development (agile methodology) for priorities, values and focus areas.

## Metrics of success

Because quantum computing is such a rapidly-changing field, it is critical to choose metrics of success that can adjust to a moving target, but which will also correspond to some reliable deliverable.

**Key points**

This is a short list of common metrics used by leaders of successful quantum initiatives.

* Number of team members upskilled to the level of quantum expertise (building skills to experiment in quantum computing)
* Number of research papers (advancing science and technology)
* Number of students and workforce members trained
* Number of patents or potentially patentable assets (IP and algorithm portfolio)
* Number of business use cases you can deliver quantum-ready
* Number of quantum-aware employees in the client organization (such as through light training like Quantum Business Foundations)
* Number of events organized and executed
* Number of active users on the IBM Quantum Platform
* Number of speaking events (internal and/or external)

## Research or application focus

> This lesson has been primarily about focusing your quantum initiative. Let us think about what that means in the context of research. One thing that is so inviting about quantum is that it is poised to fundamentally alter an amazing breadth of fields and industries. But that breadth of possibility can also hinder success, if a quantum team does not focus on one area (or a few, well-defined areas). It is therefore critical to pick an area of research and application, early on.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This lesson has been primarily about focusing your quantum initiative. Let us think about what that means in the context of research. One reason that quantum is so appealing is its potential to fundamentally alter an amazing breadth of fields and industries. But that breadth of possibility can also hinder success, if a quantum team does not focus on one area (or a few well-defined areas). It is therefore critical to pick an area of research and application, early on.
```
